docs/index.md, before:

---
title: Home
layout: home
nav_order: 1
description: "Just the Docs is a responsive Jekyll theme with built-in search that is easily customizable and hosted on GitHub Pages."
permalink: /
---

# Keep overhead on the same page
{: .fs-9 }

Operation Management Tools gives your search managment staff a single place to coordinate resources, tasks, clues, and radio logs.
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

[Get started](https://app.operation.tools){: .btn .btn-primary .fs-5 .mb-4 .mb-md-0 .mr-2 }
[Learn more](#getting-started){: .btn .fs-5 .mb-4 .mb-md-0 }

---

## Minimize chaos at your ICP
Keep track of the people on teams, the equipment assigned to them, the tasks they are working on, the clues found, and more. This browser-based app syncs in real time, so all search management staff can be kept up to date.

## Features

### Resource management

### Task managment

### Clue tracking

### Radio logging

### Safeguard against outages
Connect a thermal printer to the app to print radio logs, and clue and personnel info as they come in so you have a continuous backup in case of an outage.

Tech can fail, especially in the conditions we work in. It's your responsibility to keep backups and develop contingency plans in case of software, hardware, or infrastructure failure.

Commit message:

docs: update index.md
Simple updates to correct spelling and give additional descriptions.

docs/index.md, after:

---
title: Home
layout: home
nav_order: 1
permalink: /
---

# Keep overhead on the same page
{: .fs-9 }

Operation Management Tools gives your search management staff a single place to coordinate resources, tasks, clues, and radio logs.
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

[Get started](https://app.operation.tools){: .btn .btn-primary .fs-5 .mb-4 .mb-md-0 .mr-2 }
[Learn more](guide/getting_started){: .btn .fs-5 .mb-4 .mb-md-0 }

---

## Minimize chatter at your ICP
Keep track of the people on teams, the equipment assigned to them, the tasks they are working on, the clues found, and more. This browser-based app syncs in real time, so all search management staff can be kept up to date.

## Features

### Resource management
Track people and equipment and assign them to teams. Make decisions on how to respond if resource requests come in via the radio operator.

### Task management
Add assignments, organize them by priority, assign them to teams and check for completion. If any incidents come in, give them an incident number and assign teams to respond.

### Clue tracking
Track the investigation status of clues reported by field teams via the radio operator. Ask questions and prioritize tickets in a kanban-style board.

### Comms logging
Speed up radio and comms logging with presets for common messages. Plus, a virtual ticket rail allows other management teams to queue messages for the radio operator, allowing them to focus on communicating with teams in the field.

Export radio logs to .pdf or .csv for record keeping.

### Safeguard against outages
Connect a thermal printer to the app to print radio logs, and clue and personnel info as they come in so you have a continuous backup in case of an outage.

Tech can fail, especially in the conditions we work in. **It's your responsibility to keep backups and develop contingency plans in case of software, hardware, or infrastructure failure.**
